Let's start with goal 1.
Display content.
So I don't know if any of you have
been an ever watched charge at the or
any of these sort of talks the people do
diagramming through their code running.
The output of saving or running code
in JavaScript already most programming
languages is actually is saving data in a
computer, under the hood you can't see it.
When you do let lights equal seven, and
determined for to get to seven likes.
When you save likes as seven, we draw it
when we whiteboard, if we ever do that.
We draw it on the blackboard visually,
but it ain't visual.
It's output is very much
definitely not visual.
It's output inside the computer.
You know what?
With user interface engineering,
the output is visual.
It's pixels on a screen.
And pixels on the screen,
there's a lot of them.
In that little window there with what's
on your mind, maybe there's like,
I don't know.
Yeah, I should have looked that up before.
I mean 2,000,000 pixels
to like 8 million pixels,
every single one of those is a little
dot that we need to code for.
If the output of writing
JavaScript is saving data,
that's actually literally in
the computer saving, switching zeros and
ones, transistors on and
off in the computer.
But there's no visual output for that.
Even though we draw it, so there is.
There's no visual output for that.
Whereas with user interface,
it's visual output.
It's actually pixels on a screen.
So my goodness,
we've got to actually write content to
define exactly where those pixels are.
So we've got two days to
do just this screen here.
So let's get started pixel by pixel.
This is not a joke.
[LAUGH].
Maybe it's a joke.
We're gonna have to start with
just the top right hand corner,
because we've got a lot of
pixels to write here people.
So we'll start with just
this first one here.
We're gonna write some code to
display that first pixel here.
This is not a joke maybe it is.
It is about 100 pixels across you know
from the edge of the page roughly and
maybe it's like 900 pixels up.
So maybe my code will be something like I
guess I can right pixel hopefully I can
do that.
And then I can write 100.
Let's say x sort of across.
It's like x coordinates.
And then 900.
Maybe x 100 I don't know we can
make this up as we go, right?
Maybe y 900.
Actually, to be fair,
I could even do this like that.
I can have my code live wherever I want.
I'm the syntax designer of this and
I'd made it like that.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Happy with that.
>> Look at that beautiful.
And that's my first pixel, done.
Okay, settle in people because
we've got a lot of pixels to draw.
Who would like to draw their next one?
I think we'll have Justice.
Justice take a guess, just intuit for
me, what might my next line of code be,
to draw my next Pixel in this W that's
gonna make up what's on your mind on
this page that we've gotta
somehow display this content.
Someone's gonna do it Justice?
>> Probably a pixel
that's maybe 101 pixels.
>> Brilliant.
Yes exactly 101.
I don't know why my syntax is like this.
And then maybe 900 and no, 800 and.
What do you think?
[INAUDIBLE]
>> By the way,
I hope this becomes a montage
in the recorded version.
[LAUGH].
So that no one has to
actually sit through this.
John, you're back up.
John, what might be our next pixel?
>> Pixel?
>> I'm gonna write it because
I want us all to suffer here.
>> [LAUGH] Yeah, x is 102.
>> Yes.
>> And y is 898.
>> Beautiful, and look at my
weird syntax I invented for this.
It was very strange, okay.
Beautiful, next one, A toy,
it's gonna be a montage.
[LAUGH].
Okay, all right.
Obviously we are not gonna keep going,
there must be a better way.
In programming with data,
with JavaScript or
any other program language Python
whatever, where our output is saved data.
In this case, our output is pixels
on the display, on the screen.
In most programming I was
able to save data right and
then we can change that data so
the output then is the data changed.
I know it sounds funny to think but that's
the core feature of a programming language
is changing state in the computer.
Changing data by adding numbers to it
taking numbers away adding elements
removed yeah.
Whereas that, we have shorthands.
We do not have to allocate
the exact position in memory,
its exact address in whatever sort of ones
and zeros in the computer's hardware.
We do not have to write
the code to allocate that,
someone else has done that for us.
There are keywords like let
that say please now go and
find the next position in memory that
we can use you do the work of that,
and then save the value that we're
assigning here in that position.
And don't even worry about
dealing with addresses.
This label is English language label,
whatever we call it likes
is going to refer to that
position from now on because,
you use the keyword let right before.
Okay, that's wonderful.
Whatever goes even high level,
you have functions like sum that take, and
listen numbers one, two and
three and call them function sum.
And now we are able to add
those numbers together.
But by the way, let's think about
that which great languages have all
the languages have functional sum, right?
Any modern language would have
a built in function, sum.
Any, all of them, especially JavaScript,
unfortunately not.
But most do.
We have much more useful Reduce.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Which we all love, and can do some for
us in a way that's almost unreadable.
All right, good.
So we must hopefully have
something similar here.
Well, people have designed these
program actually won't invent it.
Well, they literally met they were derived
from the sky they were invented and
designed.
So given that what would be if I
if my output of this is this text?
What's on your mind?
If that's my output what will be the most
intuitive and look programming languages
is one intuition they will flexibility but
they want intuition.
What be the most intuitive
way I could write code?
It please cannot be this.
This was untenable thing my favorite
word to use in talks untenable.
What would be a much more tenable?
I know that's a phrase that
may not even be real word.
What would be a much more tenable,
way of producing
the output of what's on your
mind that text on the page.
I'm going to pull what would be the most
intuitive way of having the text
what's on your mind?
What would be my Code say I have my code
here that's going to produce the text
what's on your mind?
>> Knowing HTML I would either
use a paragraph or label.
>> All this is too much
information already.
Or we might absolutely what
do I add to it most minimal?
>> If I want you to show
what's on your mind,
I might write the text
what's on your mind?
>> Yes, spot on, it's almost too obvious.
Paul showing us some real
sophistication there.
But what's on your mind might become
exactly what's on your mind in my page.
If I tried to be really intuitive and
you know what?
That'd be amazing.
Would it be had that Charles
maybe it's gonna happen who
knows there's on line one.
Line two, if I wanted to display
what side an input field
into which I can type text,
what am I right or input.
And unfortunately that's going to,
and this is maybe where our friend
Paul was suggesting having some
sort of let the computer know whether
it's going to be text or something else.
Maybe here, we don't want it to write
input, we want it to show an input.
So we can put some square brackets
around it, We use those quite a lot.
Let's put something else around it.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Let's put some triangle brackets.
I know we don't use them very much.
That's nice.
And that could display us a box
on the screen beautiful..
And then All right we're getting it okay.
Maybe everyone there we go do button and
that would produce a button and
then if you just wrote the text,
Publish right next to it,
maybe that shows up in the screen.
I don't know this language
would be too intuitive though.
There's no way that we're hiring
people in the six figures
developing user interfaces using
a language this intuitive.
And to be fair,
I'm a bit suspicious about it anyway.
I'm a bit suspicious
about it anyway because,
it's not clear to me how I'd know.
So in theory,
writing what's on your mind and
then having that displayed some,
other tool, some other engine's gonna
have to have been running to convert
this into elements on the screen.
And to be fair animate on the screen,
there's a lot of questions.
I can change my window
size in a web browser, and
all of these are gonna change their
position and their pixels on the screen.
I'm gonna have to work all that
out unless there's some way in
which I can have a very simple.
What will be my most simple way of
describing what's on this screen?
I could have even done it here
I could list down the page and
create element by element,
a list maybe in describing
what's gonna be on the screen.
I can have some sort of list,
that takes each of these elements.
And all I have to do is add to that
list and figure out nothing else.
Have no other thoughts about what
pixels are gonna be on the screen,
how to think about the layout.
And instead,
all I have to do is go through a list of
elements that I wanna have on the screen,
an ordered list, by the order they are on
the page, they get added to this list.
Just like a JavaScript list, and
then rely on some sort of,
I don't know, layout and
render engine that can
convert that list of elements
into actual, Pixels on the screen itself.
But this is far too appealing.
Is it far too intuitive?
There's no way this language exists,
and we're still charging for
even this content.
There's no way I should imagine
a job that is very unhelpful.
But It does.
What is this language called, Paul?
>> HTML.
>> This is called HTML.
People, do not underestimate it.
We don't even teach it at Codesmith.
That's how intuitive it is.
This is something where we can
list down the page in order and
the elements will show up in that
respective order on the web page.
Our HTML file, literally all we have to
do, maybe one of the first things we did
on a computer each of us, is save like,
I don't know, app, write in a text file.
And then input dot HTML, and
then load it into the web
browser arousing off screen
load it into the web browser.
And that text will be read past is
a term they use PARSE passed and
turned into line by line
elements on a list.
A simplified list that a simple list
of elements now totally is implemented
as an object.
But this list here of elements
will then be automatically
converted onto the screen.
And all we have to do is
write text this list.
What language is this list
going to be stored in?
Well, the one that the web browser is
mostly built in, which is C++, but
we don't have to interface with it.
We don't have to work on it directly.
We instead get to list out and have each
of these automatically added to this list.
That is a simplified version of this page.
So here's our page, Here's our list.
And it's a simplified version so
that we don't have to worry about
the individual pixels, cuz there
are thousands of different device types.
There are tablets, phones, laptops.
There are thousands different
sizes our window of screen can be.
If we don't think about any of it,
all we do is list out our individual
elements and rely on some sort of engine.
We'll learn more about
it that lays out and
figure out the exact pixels that
get displayed on this page.
And that's it.
We add each of our elements.
So into this list here,
we'd have the string what's on your mind?
We literally get to in from our
HTML affect this list in C++,
that determines what gets
displayed on the page.
We add our input.
And each of these will then be
turned into the specific elements,
that describe that particular work for
that particular device.
That's it.
People, this is called HTML,
this C++ list, and this page.
I guess this list here,
we need to give it a name.
I am presuming it's name is
the list of elements on the page.
L E P.
I literally come up with different
invented names every time.
No, it's not actually a list,
it's technically an object.
So maybe an object just gives
it a bit more flexibility,
allows it to have a bit
more specific structure.
So it's technically an object,
so maybe it's an object.
And it's a representation of the page and
your representation of something.
If you've built your sort of LEGO model,
it's all I know,
is a representation of a real thing.
So the LEGO model of Riverdale I
actually don't know about that.
I like that when I saw that in the store,
the Lego representation Of,
what do I like, the, there's a new
gaming truck from Lego Friends, I think.
I haven't even used, I haven't seen it,
but you can play a game.
You can be a gamer in it.
So, Lego presented a gaming truck.
Yeah.
Is not the real gaming truck.
It's a simplified with
bricks version of it.
Well, this is a simplified with elements
in an object, version of the page that all
we have to do is add to that list,
almost push almost a pen to that list.
So this is known as a model.
Not a representation, but
a model of the real thing.
A Lego model,
models the real gaming truck.
So this is a model technically here.
So a model in object form.
So object model, of the page.
Up well, this is an app.
So is it really an object model of
the page or not the model the app?
So I think maybe Omar no okay.
All right.
So this a user calls a document because
it was literally like a list of links and
text, so it was like a document.
So, O M D, okay fine.
DOM.
A list in JavaScript,
a model of the document,
the page,
stored in an object format in C++.
That enables us to not have to interact
directly with pixels and work out.
That code at the top there
was absolutely untenable.
Instead, we get to write almost functions.
Think of these as functions being called.
This input says, please go and
create on this list of elements
A single element of type input.
And then we have to think nothing
more about it determining the exact
content displayed on the page is
then handled by the render engine.